# Assembly pipeline

**Licence:	GNU General Public License v3.0 (copy provided in directory)**<br />
Author:		Tom van Wijk<br />
Contact:	tom_van_wijk@hotmail.com<br />

### DESCRIPTION

This script is developed for the assembly of whole genome sequencing
(WGS from now on) data of bacterial isolates. It is developed
specifically for paired-end Illumina sequencing data but might work
or might be easily modified to work with other sequencing data formats.<br /><br />
Quality reports of the raw data are generated using FastQC and MultiQC.
The reads are quality trimmed from both ends using ENRE-filter,
assembled to de-novo contigs and scaffolds using SPAdes.
The assemblies are assessed using QUAST, a quality report is generated.

### REQUIREMENTS

-	Linux operating system. This script is developed on Linux Ubuntu<br />
	**WARNING: experiences when using different operating systems may vary.**
-	python 2.7.x
-	python libraries as listed in the import section
-	erne-filter 2.1.1 (http://erne.sourceforge.net/)
-	SPAdes 3.10.0 (http://cab.spbu.ru/files/release3.10.0/SPAdes-3.10.0-Linux.tar.gz)
-	QUAST 4.4 (https://downloads.sourceforge.net/project/quast/quast-4.4.tar.gz)
-	fastQC
-	multiQC

### INSTALLATION

-	Clone the assembly_pipeline repository to the desired location on your system.<br />
	`git clone https://github.com/tom-van-wijk/assembly_pipeline.git`
-	Add the location of assembly.py to the PATH variable:<br />
	`export PATH=$PATH:/path/to/assembly.py`<br />
	(It is recommended to add this command to your ~/.bashrc file)

### USAGE

The script can be runned with the following command:<br />

`assembly.py -i 'inputdir' -o 'outputdir' -t 'threads' -m 'memory' -x 'savetemp'`

-	**'inputdir'**: location of input directory. (required)<br />
	Should only contain either the uncompressed (.fastq)
	or compressed (.fastq.gz) sequence files containing the
	raw sequences of the forward and reverse reads.
	The files need to be named with an `_R1` and `_R2` tag
	for the forward and reverse reads respectively.<br />
	Each sample (set of forward and reverse files) are
	treated as a separate isolate. It is not (yet) possible
	to process isolates that are divided into multiple
	different samples. Will add this when required.

-	**'outputdir'**: location of output directory. (Default = inputdir)<br />
	The output will be stored in multiple directories inside
	this directory.

-	**'threads'**: Number of threads (virtual cpu cores) to be used. (Default = 4)

-	**'memory'** Maximum amount of RAM (GB) to be used. (Default = 13)<br />
	If the machine runs out of RAM memory, SPAde will crash
	so adjust this parameter appropriately to your machine.

-	**'savetemp'**: Set to true so save the temporary files and
	directories generated by the pipeline. (Default = false)

